Some tips to all incoming freshmen (More commuter friendly)
Hey, I was one last year so just some tips and stuff for you to do

Do not spam food trucks, do not spam taco bell, do not spam any chinese restaurant. Yes these foods are cheap, but you WILL gain weight. I saw countless friends gain a lot of weight. If you are commuting, just bring food from home or try to eat at healthier places. Newark has a ton of food places around Rutgers-Newark and downtown. During the day it's pretty safe to explore these areas, during the night you should NOT be exploring these areas. I'll link a thread of some cool food places in the comments.

If you are a computer science major, do get involved with the ACM. I actually volunteer tutored for CS100 and CS113, sometimes CS114. They do have tutors who will help you with your assignments, sometimes the tutors aren't qualified for your class, do not worry. Hang around and meet some people. Some people there are mean to people who are new, but they probably think you came for tutoring. Just tell them you're there to hang. I made a ton of friends there and met some of the coolest people ever. If you are a computer engineer or electrical engineer, join IEEE, and for the rest of the majors, find the club for your majors. You also build lots of connections this way, find out the good professors (Thank god I never took Morty Kwestel), what classes you SHOULD take.

If you are a commuter, the commuter lounge is an OKAY place to hang out. I only went there my first week, and it was mostly just people playing Magic the gathering, league, or watching anime. You can make friends this way.

Actually attend class, you CAN get dropped if you miss something like 2-3 classes, it depends on the class. Do not skip, if you're having an extremely rough day and you need to skip, go to the professors office hours / figure out what you missed. You are paying to be there, so be there lol.

Yes, the NJIT faculty is god awful, I put up with them, everyone puts up with them, put up with it. Always make sure you're on top of your bills, holds, etc. You CAN and sometimes WILL get screwed if you wait until the last minute to deal with everything. The faculty isn't awful here, it's actually really awful at other schools too. All schools have this problem (Maybe not harvard and some private schools, but w/e).

If you are getting rekt in one of your classes, SEEK HELP. They have MATH tutoring, they have tutoring for most classes, GO SEEK HELP. I went to the writing center for an essay I was scared I was going to get a D on, the guy at the writing center picked apart my essay and gave me tons of feedback, and I ended with a B(+? Dont remember). Also I REALLY recommend you reserve with Jon Curley(He's an AMAZING PROFESSOR, I recommend you take him too, probably the best professor in the entire humanities department, fuck the humanities department). He commutes here from Manhattan, just an overall awesome guy to have class with, you will learn quite a bit.

Try NOT taking professors with below a 2.5 score on Ratemyprofessor. I ALWAYS heard complains of shit professors from friends, and was able to dodge this issue by constantly planning out the courses I wanna take through NJIT.xyz , and having backup course plans incase I couldn't get one class. Also make sure you register for your classes at 12AM, it's wartime when registration opens, you don't want to get fucked in the process.

Yes, NJIT is 70% male, it will be hard to find a female "counterpart" or w/e, or just in general female friends. This is on you, go to concerts, we are right across from NYC (The path is only $2.75), and like a 15min walk from Prudential Center. You can also always hang out at rutgers newark and try to make some "female friends" there. Again, this is on you

Also if you are a commuter, don't be one of those guys that goes straight home after classes were over. My classes ended about night time so I did this, but I came early to hang out / attend club meetings / etc. You will have some free time, take the fullest advantage of that free time.

"I highly suggest getting involved in campus clubs and organizations. Most of them have GPA requirements so it'll keep you on your toes. I don't regret joining The Vector. I made friends, actually knew stuff about the stuff that goes on behind the scene at NJIT, and held leadership roles. The free pizza and drinks at the meetings were a plus." - u/amysaysgrr